docs/docs/10.1-animation.md, before:

---
id: animation
title: Animation
permalink: animation.html
prev: addons.html
next: two-way-binding-helpers.html
---

React provides a `ReactTransitionGroup` addon component as a low-level API for animation, and a `ReactCSSTransitionGroup` for easily implementing basic CSS animations and transitions.

## High-level API: `ReactCSSTransitionGroup`

`ReactCSSTransitionGroup` is based on `ReactTransitionGroup` and is an easy way to perform CSS transitions and animations when a React component enters or leaves the DOM. It's inspired by the excellent [ng-animate](http://www.nganimate.org/) library.

### Getting Started

`ReactCSSTransitionGroup` is the interface to `ReactTransitions`. This is a simple element that wraps all of the components you are interested in animating. Here's an example where we fade list items in and out.

```javascript{28-30}
var ReactCSSTransitionGroup = React.addons.CSSTransitionGroup;

var TodoList = React.createClass({
  getInitialState: function() {
    return {items: ['hello', 'world', 'click', 'me']};
  },
  handleAdd: function() {
    var newItems =
      this.state.items.concat([prompt('Enter some text')]);
    this.setState({items: newItems});
  },
  handleRemove: function(i) {
    var newItems = this.state.items;
    newItems.splice(i, 1);
    this.setState({items: newItems});
  },
  render: function() {
    var items = this.state.items.map(function(item, i) {
      return (
        <div key={item} onClick={this.handleRemove.bind(this, i)}>
          {item}
        </div>
      );
    }.bind(this));
    return (
      <div>
        <button onClick={this.handleAdd}>Add Item</button>
        <ReactCSSTransitionGroup transitionName="example">
          {items}
        </ReactCSSTransitionGroup>
      </div>
    );
  }
});
```
> Note:
>
> You must provide [the `key` attribute](/react/docs/multiple-components.html#dynamic-children) for all children of `ReactCSSTransitionGroup`, even if rendering a single item. This is how React will determine which children have entered, left, or stayed.

In this component, when a new item is added to `ReactCSSTransitionGroup` it will get the `example-enter` CSS class and the `example-enter-active` CSS class added in the next tick. This is a convention based on the `transitionName` prop.

You can use these classes to trigger a CSS animation or transition. For example, try adding this CSS and adding a new list item:

```css
.example-enter {
  opacity: 0.01;
  transition: opacity .5s ease-in;
}

.example-enter.example-enter-active {
  opacity: 1;
}
```

You'll notice that when you try to remove an item `ReactCSSTransitionGroup` keeps it in the DOM. If you're using an unminified build of React with add-ons you'll see a warning that React was expecting an animation or transition to occur. That's because `ReactCSSTransitionGroup` keeps your DOM elements on the page until the animation completes. Try adding this CSS:

```css
.example-leave {
  opacity: 1;
  transition: opacity .5s ease-in;
}

.example-leave.example-leave-active {
  opacity: 0.01;
}
```

### Animation Group Must Be Mounted To Work

In order for it to apply transitions to its children, the `ReactCSSTransitionGroup` must already be mounted in the DOM. The example below would not work, because the `ReactCSSTransitionGroup` is being mounted along with the new item, instead of the new item being mounted within it. Compare this to the [Getting Started](#getting-started) section above to see the difference.

```javascript{12-15}
  render: function() {
    var items = this.state.items.map(function(item, i) {
      return (
        <div key={item} onClick={this.handleRemove.bind(this, i)}>
          <ReactCSSTransitionGroup transitionName="example">
            {item}
          </ReactCSSTransitionGroup>
        </div>
      );
    }, this);
    return (
      <div>
        <button onClick={this.handleAdd}>Add Item</button>
        {items}
      </div>
    );
  }
```

### Animating One or Zero Items

Although in the example above we rendered a list of items into `ReactCSSTransitionGroup`, the children of `ReactCSSTransitionGroup` can be one or zero items. This makes it possible to animate a single element entering or leaving. Similarly, you can animate a new element replacing the current element, with the new element animating in while the current animates out. For example, we can implement a simple image carousel like this:

```javascript{10-12}
var ReactCSSTransitionGroup = React.addons.CSSTransitionGroup;

var ImageCarousel = React.createClass({
  propTypes: {
    imageSrc: React.PropTypes.string.isRequired
  },
  render: function() {
    return (
      <div>
        <ReactCSSTransitionGroup transitionName="carousel">
          <img src={this.props.imageSrc} key={this.props.imageSrc} />
        </ReactCSSTransitionGroup>
      </div>
    );
  }
});
```

### Disabling Animations

You can disable animating `enter` or `leave` animations if you want. For example, sometimes you may want an `enter` animation and no `leave` animation, but `ReactCSSTransitionGroup` waits for an animation to complete before removing your DOM node. You can add `transitionEnter={false}` or `transitionLeave={false}` props to `ReactCSSTransitionGroup` to disable these animations.

> Note:
>
> When using `ReactCSSTransitionGroup`, there's no way for your components to be notified when a transition has ended or to perform any more complex logic around animation. If you want more fine-grained control, you can use the lower-level `ReactTransitionGroup` API which provides the hooks you need to do custom transitions.

## Low-level API: `ReactTransitionGroup`

`ReactTransitionGroup` is the basis for animations. It is accessible as `React.addons.TransitionGroup`. When children are declaratively added or removed from it (as in the example above) special lifecycle hooks are called on them.

### `componentWillAppear(callback)`

This is called at the same time as `componentDidMount()` for components that are initially mounted in a `TransitionGroup`. It will block other animations from occurring until `callback` is called. It is only called on the initial render of a `TransitionGroup`.

### `componentDidAppear()`

This is called after the `callback` function that was passed to `componentWillAppear` is called.

### `componentWillEnter(callback)`

This is called at the same time as `componentDidMount()` for components added to an existing `TransitionGroup`. It will block other animations from occurring until `callback` is called. It will not be called on the initial render of a `TransitionGroup`.

### `componentDidEnter()`

This is called after the `callback` function that was passed to `componentWillEnter` is called.

### `componentWillLeave(callback)`

This is called when the child has been removed from the `ReactTransitionGroup`. Though the child has been removed, `ReactTransitionGroup` will keep it in the DOM until `callback` is called.

### `componentDidLeave()`

This is called when the `willLeave` `callback` is called (at the same time as `componentWillUnmount`).

### Rendering a Different Component

By default `ReactTransitionGroup` renders as a `span`. You can change this behavior by providing a `component` prop. For example, here's how you would render a `<ul>`:

```javascript{1}
<ReactTransitionGroup component="ul">
  ...
</ReactTransitionGroup>
```

Every DOM component that React can render is available for use. However, `component` does not need to be a DOM component. It can be any React component you want; even ones you've written yourself!

> Note:
>
> Prior to v0.12, when using DOM components, the `component` prop needed to be a reference to `React.DOM.*`. Since the component is simply passed to `React.createElement`, it must now be a string. Composite components must pass the factory.

Any additional, user-defined, properties will become properties of the rendered component. For example, here's how you would render a `<ul>` with css class:

```javascript{1}
<ReactTransitionGroup component="ul" className="animated-list">
  ...
</ReactTransitionGroup>
```

### Unfinished Animations

React uses the transitionend event (https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Events/transitionend) to clean-up DOM elements once their animation completes. This event may not fire for a range of reasons (including the browser tab being de-focused before the animation ends); react will automatically clean up any un-ended animations after `5000ms` under the assumption that the event will never be sent. We recommend setting the precise expected duration of your animation using the `transitionLeaveTimeout`, `transitionEnterTimeout` and `transitionAppearTimeout` props on `ReactCSSTransitionGroup` so that it can be cleaned-up immediately, even if the transitionend event doesn't fire.

Commit message:

Optional transition clean-up timeouts
Transition cleanup on a timeout is now wholly opt-in, making the
augmented ReactCSSTransitionGroup API fully backwards compatible. Now,
the transition cleanup timeout is set-up only if a timeout-delay was
specified by the caller.

The dev-mode 'no-transitionend' warning has been reverted to a 5000ms
timeout and only applies if no timeout was specified by the caller.
Previously, this warning would trigger on every transition if the exact
duration of the animation was specified (because the timeout raced with
the transitionend event and always won).

This essentially creates two usage modes for the component: a more
automated default mode (which inherits the unreliability of the
transitionend events that it listens to); and an advanced mode where the
animation duration is specified explicitly and all cleanup is performed
with timeouts. It is also possible to specify over-long timeouts as
fail-safes and use the transitionend event where possible. All three of
these usage patterns are now discussed in the documentation (where users
will hopefully find themselves if they're having reliability problems
with the default mode).

docs/docs/10.1-animation.md, after:

---
id: animation
title: Animation
permalink: animation.html
prev: addons.html
next: two-way-binding-helpers.html
---

React provides a `ReactTransitionGroup` addon component as a low-level API for animation, and a `ReactCSSTransitionGroup` for easily implementing basic CSS animations and transitions.

## High-level API: `ReactCSSTransitionGroup`

`ReactCSSTransitionGroup` is based on `ReactTransitionGroup` and is an easy way to perform CSS transitions and animations when a React component enters or leaves the DOM. It's inspired by the excellent [ng-animate](http://www.nganimate.org/) library.

### Getting Started

`ReactCSSTransitionGroup` is the interface to `ReactTransitions`. This is a simple element that wraps all of the components you are interested in animating. Here's an example where we fade list items in and out.

```javascript{28-30}
var ReactCSSTransitionGroup = React.addons.CSSTransitionGroup;

var TodoList = React.createClass({
  getInitialState: function() {
    return {items: ['hello', 'world', 'click', 'me']};
  },
  handleAdd: function() {
    var newItems =
      this.state.items.concat([prompt('Enter some text')]);
    this.setState({items: newItems});
  },
  handleRemove: function(i) {
    var newItems = this.state.items;
    newItems.splice(i, 1);
    this.setState({items: newItems});
  },
  render: function() {
    var items = this.state.items.map(function(item, i) {
      return (
        <div key={item} onClick={this.handleRemove.bind(this, i)}>
          {item}
        </div>
      );
    }.bind(this));
    return (
      <div>
        <button onClick={this.handleAdd}>Add Item</button>
        <ReactCSSTransitionGroup transitionName="example">
          {items}
        </ReactCSSTransitionGroup>
      </div>
    );
  }
});
```
> Note:
>
> You must provide [the `key` attribute](/react/docs/multiple-components.html#dynamic-children) for all children of `ReactCSSTransitionGroup`, even if rendering a single item. This is how React will determine which children have entered, left, or stayed.

In this component, when a new item is added to `ReactCSSTransitionGroup` it will get the `example-enter` CSS class and the `example-enter-active` CSS class added in the next tick. This is a convention based on the `transitionName` prop.

You can use these classes to trigger a CSS animation or transition. For example, try adding this CSS and adding a new list item:

```css
.example-enter {
  opacity: 0.01;
  transition: opacity .5s ease-in;
}

.example-enter.example-enter-active {
  opacity: 1;
}
```

You'll notice that when you try to remove an item `ReactCSSTransitionGroup` keeps it in the DOM. If you're using an unminified build of React with add-ons you'll see a warning that React was expecting an animation or transition to occur. That's because `ReactCSSTransitionGroup` keeps your DOM elements on the page until the animation completes. Try adding this CSS:

```css
.example-leave {
  opacity: 1;
  transition: opacity .5s ease-in;
}

.example-leave.example-leave-active {
  opacity: 0.01;
}
```

### Animation Group Must Be Mounted To Work

In order for it to apply transitions to its children, the `ReactCSSTransitionGroup` must already be mounted in the DOM. The example below would not work, because the `ReactCSSTransitionGroup` is being mounted along with the new item, instead of the new item being mounted within it. Compare this to the [Getting Started](#getting-started) section above to see the difference.

```javascript{12-15}
  render: function() {
    var items = this.state.items.map(function(item, i) {
      return (
        <div key={item} onClick={this.handleRemove.bind(this, i)}>
          <ReactCSSTransitionGroup transitionName="example">
            {item}
          </ReactCSSTransitionGroup>
        </div>
      );
    }, this);
    return (
      <div>
        <button onClick={this.handleAdd}>Add Item</button>
        {items}
      </div>
    );
  }
```

### Animating One or Zero Items

Although in the example above we rendered a list of items into `ReactCSSTransitionGroup`, the children of `ReactCSSTransitionGroup` can be one or zero items. This makes it possible to animate a single element entering or leaving. Similarly, you can animate a new element replacing the current element, with the new element animating in while the current animates out. For example, we can implement a simple image carousel like this:

```javascript{10-12}
var ReactCSSTransitionGroup = React.addons.CSSTransitionGroup;

var ImageCarousel = React.createClass({
  propTypes: {
    imageSrc: React.PropTypes.string.isRequired
  },
  render: function() {
    return (
      <div>
        <ReactCSSTransitionGroup transitionName="carousel">
          <img src={this.props.imageSrc} key={this.props.imageSrc} />
        </ReactCSSTransitionGroup>
      </div>
    );
  }
});
```

### Disabling Animations

You can disable animating `enter` or `leave` animations if you want. For example, sometimes you may want an `enter` animation and no `leave` animation, but `ReactCSSTransitionGroup` waits for an animation to complete before removing your DOM node. You can add `transitionEnter={false}` or `transitionLeave={false}` props to `ReactCSSTransitionGroup` to disable these animations.

> Note:
>
> When using `ReactCSSTransitionGroup`, there's no way for your components to be notified when a transition has ended or to perform any more complex logic around animation. If you want more fine-grained control, you can use the lower-level `ReactTransitionGroup` API which provides the hooks you need to do custom transitions.

## Low-level API: `ReactTransitionGroup`

`ReactTransitionGroup` is the basis for animations. It is accessible as `React.addons.TransitionGroup`. When children are declaratively added or removed from it (as in the example above) special lifecycle hooks are called on them.

### `componentWillAppear(callback)`

This is called at the same time as `componentDidMount()` for components that are initially mounted in a `TransitionGroup`. It will block other animations from occurring until `callback` is called. It is only called on the initial render of a `TransitionGroup`.

### `componentDidAppear()`

This is called after the `callback` function that was passed to `componentWillAppear` is called.

### `componentWillEnter(callback)`

This is called at the same time as `componentDidMount()` for components added to an existing `TransitionGroup`. It will block other animations from occurring until `callback` is called. It will not be called on the initial render of a `TransitionGroup`.

### `componentDidEnter()`

This is called after the `callback` function that was passed to `componentWillEnter` is called.

### `componentWillLeave(callback)`

This is called when the child has been removed from the `ReactTransitionGroup`. Though the child has been removed, `ReactTransitionGroup` will keep it in the DOM until `callback` is called.

### `componentDidLeave()`

This is called when the `willLeave` `callback` is called (at the same time as `componentWillUnmount`).

### Rendering a Different Component

By default `ReactTransitionGroup` renders as a `span`. You can change this behavior by providing a `component` prop. For example, here's how you would render a `<ul>`:

```javascript{1}
<ReactTransitionGroup component="ul">
  ...
</ReactTransitionGroup>
```

Every DOM component that React can render is available for use. However, `component` does not need to be a DOM component. It can be any React component you want; even ones you've written yourself!

> Note:
>
> Prior to v0.12, when using DOM components, the `component` prop needed to be a reference to `React.DOM.*`. Since the component is simply passed to `React.createElement`, it must now be a string. Composite components must pass the factory.

Any additional, user-defined, properties will become properties of the rendered component. For example, here's how you would render a `<ul>` with css class:

```javascript{1}
<ReactTransitionGroup component="ul" className="animated-list">
  ...
</ReactTransitionGroup>
```

### Animation Timeouts

By default, React uses the transitionend event (https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Events/transitionend) to clean-up DOM elements once their animation completes. This event may not fire for a range of reasons (including the browser tab being de-focused before the animation ends). In the worst case, a missed transitionend event can lead to `leaving` children remaining in the DOM indefinitley.

React provides an alternative way to clean up animated elements: specify the precise expected duration of your animation using the `transitionLeaveTimeout`, `transitionEnterTimeout` and `transitionAppearTimeout` props on `ReactCSSTransitionGroup`. This may require duplication of transition times between your CSS and component code, but it can also provide a stability improvement.

If you're having problems -- for example, if you're seeing console warning messages like this one: `transition(): tried to perform an animation without an animationend or transitionend event after (5000ms). You should either disable this transition in JS, add a CSS animation/transition or specify a timeout for your animation.` -- then we recommend specifying these times.

Note: if a transitionend event is detected before the specified timeout has elapsed, then React will clean-up the animation immediately. This means that it's OK to specify a 'failsafe' timeout that's longer than the actual animation - the clean-up will usually be triggered immediately by the transitionend event. Specifying a timeout that's too short will curtail the animation.
